Reddit login and conversion
==========================

Reddit's normal HTML pages may return a network-security block page to
non-browser fetchers. For Reddit comments URLs, use HtmlQuill's
``reddit_api`` adapter with OAuth.

Why OAuth instead of plain HTML fetching?
-----------------------------------------

When HtmlQuill fetches Reddit pages via ``requests`` or a browser without
authentication, Reddit often returns a CAPTCHA or "blocked by network
security" interstitial instead of the actual page content. The
``reddit_api`` adapter avoids this by calling the official Reddit JSON API
at ``https://oauth.reddit.com/comments/<post_id>``, which requires an OAuth
bearer token.

1. Install secure auth support
------------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install "htmlquill[secure]"

2. Configure Reddit defaults
----------------------------

Create or update ``~/.config/htmlquill/config.toml``:

.. code-block:: bash

   htmlquill config init

Set the Reddit site config:

.. code-block:: toml

   [paths]
   auth_vault_file = "~/.config/htmlquill/auth.vault"

   [sites."reddit.com"]
   adapter = "reddit_api"
   auth = "reddit"
   timeout = 30.0
   user_agent = "linux:htmlquill:v0.3.0 (by /u/YOUR_REDDIT_USERNAME)"

Use your real Reddit username or project contact in the ``User-Agent``.

3. Create a Reddit app
----------------------

Create a Reddit app in Reddit's app preferences/developer app page. For
HtmlQuill's default local callback, set the redirect URI exactly to:

.. code-block:: text

   http://127.0.0.1:8765/callback

Copy the client ID. If your Reddit app has a client secret, copy that too.
If it is an installed/non-confidential app, it may not have a secret;
HtmlQuill allows the secret to be blank.

4. Login
--------

.. code-block:: bash

   htmlquill auth login reddit --client-id YOUR_REDDIT_CLIENT_ID

If your app has a secret:

.. code-block:: bash

   htmlquill auth login reddit \
     --client-id YOUR_REDDIT_CLIENT_ID \
     --client-secret YOUR_REDDIT_CLIENT_SECRET

You can also use environment variables:

.. code-block:: bash

   export REDDIT_CLIENT_ID='...'
   export REDDIT_CLIENT_SECRET='...'   # optional
   htmlquill auth login reddit

The command opens Reddit in your browser, asks you to authorize the app,
receives the callback on ``127.0.0.1:8765``, then writes an encrypted
``reddit`` profile to ``auth.vault``. HtmlQuill stores OAuth tokens, not
your Reddit password.

CLI options for ``auth login reddit``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: text

   --client-id TEXT
   --client-secret TEXT
   --scope TEXT              default: read
   --redirect-port INTEGER   default: 8765
   --config PATH
   --auth-vault-file PATH
   --force
   --print-url
   --manual-code

Headless and manual login
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For headless environments where a browser is not available:

.. code-block:: bash

   htmlquill auth login reddit \
     --client-id YOUR_REDDIT_CLIENT_ID \
     --print-url \
     --manual-code

Open the printed URL manually. After Reddit redirects to the local callback
URL, copy the ``code=...`` query parameter from the browser address bar and
paste it into HtmlQuill.

5. Verify
---------

.. code-block:: bash

   htmlquill auth vault show --profile reddit
   htmlquill config show "https://www.reddit.com/r/ObsidianMD/comments/1q2b6fp/title/" --profile reddit
   htmlquill doctor --url "https://www.reddit.com/r/ObsidianMD/comments/1q2b6fp/title/" --profile reddit

The doctor output should report:

- ``reddit:adapter`` uses ``reddit_api``
- ``reddit:token`` is available from the encrypted vault
- ``reddit:user_agent`` is configured

6. Convert a Reddit thread
--------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

   htmlquill convert \
     "https://www.reddit.com/r/ObsidianMD/comments/1q2b6fp/my_comprehensive_obsidian_setup_web_clipper_bases/" \
     -o reddit-thread.md

HtmlQuill will ask for the vault password when it needs to decrypt
``auth.vault``.

Logout or replace credentials
-----------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

   htmlquill auth logout reddit
   htmlquill auth login reddit --force --client-id YOUR_REDDIT_CLIENT_ID

``logout`` attempts to revoke stored access and refresh tokens, then removes
the local ``reddit`` profile from the vault.

Troubleshooting
---------------

**``secure auth requires VaultConfig``**

Install the secure extra:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install "htmlquill[secure]"

**``OAuth authorization timed out``**

The browser did not complete the local callback. Check that the Reddit app
redirect URI exactly matches ``http://127.0.0.1:8765/callback``, or retry
with ``--print-url --manual-code``.

**``invalid_grant`` or redirect mismatch**

The redirect URI in the Reddit app must exactly match the URI generated by
HtmlQuill. If you pass ``--redirect-port 9999``, configure Reddit with
``http://127.0.0.1:9999/callback``.

**``reddit profile already exists in auth vault``**

Use ``--force`` to replace it:

.. code-block:: bash

   htmlquill auth login reddit --force --client-id YOUR_REDDIT_CLIENT_ID

**``Reddit API adapter requires a bearer token``**

Run ``htmlquill auth login reddit``, verify the vault with
``htmlquill auth vault show --profile reddit``, and make sure
``[sites."reddit.com"].auth = "reddit"`` is configured.

**``Reddit API adapter requires a descriptive User-Agent``**

Set:

.. code-block:: toml

   [sites."reddit.com"]
   user_agent = "linux:htmlquill:v0.3.0 (by /u/YOUR_REDDIT_USERNAME)"

**Still seeing Reddit network-security HTML**

Run:

.. code-block:: bash

   htmlquill config show URL --profile reddit

Confirm ``adapter`` is ``reddit_api``. The adapter currently supports
Reddit comments URLs only. Other Reddit pages may still use the normal HTML
fetch path.
